LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF ENGLEWOOD AND THE ENGLEWOOD COUNTY MENTAL HEALTH BOARD ACCESS INITIATIVE PROJECT 

THIS LEASE AGREEMENT is and entered into this first day of June, 2010, by and  between the Englewood County Board (hereinafter referred to as “Landlord”) and the  Englewood County Mental Health Board Access Initiative Project (hereinafter referred to as  “Tenant”). 

ARTICLE I 

Premises 

Landlord does hereby lease to Tenant office space located in Rooms 240-245 of Pod 200  of the Englewood County Brookens Administrative Center, which is located at 3333 East  Washington Street, Loenie, New York. The Tenant will lease 1,300 square feet of office space  during the period of June 1, 2010 - May 31, 2013. The office space leased is identified in the  floor plan of the Brookens Administrative Center, which is attached as Exhibit “A”. 

ARTICLE II 

Term 

This lease shall be for a three-year period commending on June 1, 2010 and ending on  May 31, 2013. The lease term shall automatically renew for one year periods thereafter,  commencing June 1,2013, unless the Tenant gives Landlord notice at least ninety (90) days prior  to the end of each lease period that the Tenant does not wish to renew the lease. 

ARTICLE III 

Rent Rent for said premises shall be at the following rates: 

a. From June L 2010-May 31, 2011 - The rent for this term shall be $18,888.96 with  monthly payment of $1,574.08 due on the first day of each calendar month. 

b. For every lease period on or after June 1, 2011 - Rent as charged in the previous rental  period plus CPI (as documented to Englewood County by the New York Department of Revenue in  January of the renewal year, to determine the maximum extension under the Property Tax  Extension Limitation Law), except that if the CPI is negative, the rent shall be adjusted by 0%,  and if the CPI exceeds 5%, the rent increase shall be capped at 5%. 

1


ARTICLE IV 

Utilities 

At no additional cost to Tenant, Landlord shall provide electric current, plumbing, and  heat and air conditioning, during the appropriate seasons. Landlord shall not be liable for failure  to furnish or for suspension or delays in furnishing any utilities caused by breakdown,  maintenance or repair work, strike, riot, civil disturbance, or any cause or reason whatsoever  beyond the control of the Landlord. 

ARTICLE V 

Use of Premises 

a) Tenant shall use and occupy the leased premises as a business office for the Englewood  County Mental Health Board Access Initiative Project and for no other purpose whatsoever  without the prior written consent of Landlord. Tenant shall not use or permit the leased premises  or any part thereof to be used for any disorderly, unlawful, or extra hazardous purpose. 

b) Tenant shall commit no act of waste and shall take good care of the leased premises and  the fixtures and appurtenances therein, and shall, in the use and occupancy of the leased  premises, conform to all laws, orders, and regulations of the federal, state, and municipal or local  governments or any of their departments. Tenant further agrees to save Landlord harmless from  all fines, penalties and costs for violations of or non-compliance with the same. 

c) Tenant shall not use or permit the use of machinery or equipment which shall cause an  unreasonable consumption of utilities within the leased premises beyond that made known to  Landlord at the time of execution of this lease. 

d) Tenant shall not use any equipment or engage in any activity on the leased premises  which shall cause an increase in the insurance rate of the Brookens Administrative Center or  which shall create or cause undue expense to Landlord for maintenance and/or utilities. 

e) At the expiration or other termination of this lease, Tenant shall surrender and deliver the  leased premises in as good a condition as when Tenant first received possession of the leased  premises, ordinary wear and tear and damage by the elements, fire, and other unavoidable  casualty excepted. Tenant shall serve upon Landlord within ninety (90) days of the  commencement of this lease written notice specifying what parts, if any, of the leased premises  are not in good order. 

2


ARTICLE VI 

Subletting and Assignment 

Tenant shall not, without first obtaining the written consent of Landlord, assign,  mortgage, pledge, or encumber this lease, or sublet the leased premises or any part thereof. 

ARTICLE VII 

Alterations 

a) Tenant will not make any alterations, installations, changes, replacements, additions or  improvements (structural or otherwise) in or to the leased premises or any part thereof, without  the prior written approval of Landlord of the design, plans and specifications therefore, which  approval shall not unreasonably be withheld. Tenant shall keep the leased premises and the  building and grounds of which it is a part free and clear of liens arising out of any work  performed, materials furnished, or obligations incurred by Tenant, including mechanic’s liens. 

b) It is distinctly understood that all alterations, installations, changes, replacement,  additions, or improvements upon the leased premises made by the Tenant pursuant to (a) herein,  shall at the election of Landlord, remain upon the leased premises and be surrendered with the  leased premises at the expiration of this lease without disturbance or injury. Should Landlord  elect that same be removed upon termination of this lease or any extension thereof. Tenant  hereby agrees to cause same to be removed at the sole cost and expense of Tenant. Should  Tenant fail to remove same, then Landlord may cause same to be removed, and Tenant hereby  agrees to reimburse Landlord for the cost of such removal together with any and all damages  with Landlord may suffer and sustain by reason of the failure of Tenant to remove the same. 

c) Maintenance and repair of any items installed pursuant hereto shall be the sole  responsibility of Tenant, and Landlord shall have no obligation in connection therewith. 

d) Tenant shall promptly repair any and all damage caused to the leased premises or to the  building and grounds of which the leased premises are a part occasioned by the installation or  removal of any alteration made pursuant hereto. 

ARTICLE VIII 

Parking 

a) At no additional cost to Tenant, Tenant’s employees may park in either the rear employee  parking lot, located at the northern and northeastern portion of the property, or in the Washington  Street employee parking lot located on the southeast side of the property. Parking spaces shall  be available on first-come-first-served basis. 

3


b) Tenant’s temporary business guests and visitors will be permitted to use the visitors’  reserved parking spaces available off Washington Avenue and in the northeast parking lot off of  Lierman Avenue. Parking spaces shall be available on a first-come-first-served basis. 

ARTICLE IX 

Signs, Notices, Advertisements, Etc. 

a) Landlord shall place a sign with Tenant’s name on the exterior of the building of which  the leased premises is a part. 

b) Tenant shall not inscribe, print, affix, or otherwise place any sign, advertisement, or  notice on the grounds, or the exterior or interior of the building of which the leased premises is a  part, except on the doors of leased premises and only in a size, color and style approved by  Landlord. 

ARTICLE X 

Services 

At no additional cost, Landlord agrees to furnish custodial services that are customary in  the building of which the leased premise is a part. Landlord shall furnish adequate lavatory  supplies and normal and usual maintenance, Mondays through Fridays, except that, during weeks  having a legal holiday during the normal work week, such services shall not be available on such  holidays. 

ARTICLE XI 

Damage to Premises 

If, without the fault of Tenant, the leased premises is damaged by fire or other casualty to  such extent that the leased premises if totally destroyed or if the damage occurs during the last  six (6) months of the term of this lease, this lease shall cease and rent shall be apportioned to the  time of the damage. In all other cases when the leased premises is damaged by fire or other  casualty, without the fault of Tenant, Landlord shall repair the damage with reasonable dispatch,  and if the damage has rendered the leased premises untenable, in hole or in part, there shall be an  apportionment of the rent until the damage has been repaired. However, should the leased  premises not be restored to tenantable condition within three (3) months from the date of said  damage, then Tenant may, at is option, cancel and terminate this lease in its entirety. In  determining what constitutes reasonable dispatch, consideration shall be given to delays caused  by strikes, adjustment of insurance, and other causes beyond Landlord’s control. If the damage  results from the fault of Tenant, or Tenant’s agents, servants, visitors, or licensees, Tenant shall  not be entitled to any abatement or reduction of rent. 

4


No compensation, claim, or diminution of rent shall be allowed or paid by Landlord, by  reason of inconvenience, annoyance, or injury to business, arising from the necessity of repairing  the leased premises or any portion of the building of which it is a part, however, the necessity  may occur. 

Landlord shall not be liable for damages for, nor shall this lease be affected by,  conditions arising or resulting from construction on contiguous premises which may affect the  building of which the leased premises is a part. 

ARTICLE XII 

Access 

Landlord, its agents and employees, shall have the right to enter the leased premises at all  reasonable hours and necessary times to inspect the premises and to make necessary repairs and  improvements to the premises and the building in which the premises is located. 

ARTICLE XIII 

Cumulative Remedies and Waiver 

The specified remedies to which Landlord may resort under the terms of this lease are  cumulative and are not intended to be exclusive of any other remedies or means of redress to  which Landlord may be lawfully entitled in case of any breach or threatened breach by Tenant of  any provision of this lease. The failure of Landlord to insist on strict performance of any  covenant or condition of this lease, or to exercise any option herein contained, shall not be  construed as a waiver of such covenant, condition, or option in any other instance. No waiver  by Landlord of any provision of this lease shall be deemed to have been made unless expressed  in writing and signed by Landlord. 

ARTICLE XIV 

Partial Invalidity 

Should any provision of this lease be or become invalid or unenforceable, the remaining  provisions shall be and continue to be fully effective. 

5


ARTICLE XV 

Successors 

All of the terms and provisions of this lease shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit  of and be enforceable by and upon the representatives, successors and assigns of Landlord and  Tenant. 

ARTICLE XVI 

Notices and Payments 

All rent or other payments under this lease shall be paid to Landlord at Englewood  County Treasurer’s Office, 3333 East Washington Street, Loenie, New York, 88888, or at such  other place as Landlord may from time to time designate by written notice to Tenant. All notices  required or desired to be furnished to Landlord by Tenant shall be in writing and shall by  furnished by mailing the same by certified mail to Landlord addressed to Englewood County  Administrator, 3333 East Washington Street, Loenie, New York 88888. All notices to Tenant shall  be in writing and shall be furnished by Landlord by mailing the same by certified mail addressed  to Englewood County Mental Health Board Access Initiative Project, 3333 East Washington  Street, Loenie, New York 88888. 

ARTICLE XVII 

Governing Law 

This lease shall be construed, enforced, and considered made in accordance with the laws  of the State of New York. 

ARTICLE XVIII 

Titles 

All titles, captions and headings contained in this lease are for convenience only and shall  not be taken into consideration in any construction or interpretation of this lease or any of its  provisions. 

6


ARTICLE XIX 

Entire Agreement 

The terms of this lease constitute the whole and entire agreement between the parties and  supersede any and all prior understandings, discussions, agreements or otherwise between the  parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof. 

ARTICLE XX 

Amendment 

No amendment to this lease shall be effective unless it is in writing and signed by the  parties hereto. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals the  day and year first above written, in duplicate documents, each of which shall be considered to be  an original. 

Landlord: 

COUNTY OF ENGLEWOOD, ILLINOIS 

By: С, ¿Лш (■ i/_____ Date: May 21, 2010 C. Luis Watson, Chair  Englewood County Board 

ATTEST: ' / //Ь-Ы- Mark Kirkden, County Clerk and  Ex-Officio Clerk of the County Board 

Tenant: 

ENGLEWOOD COUNTY MENTAL HEALTH BOARD 

By: Date: <>{^//0


АГГГЛЗШХА А 

Pod 200 - Access Initiative ENGLEWOOD COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  PHYSICAL PLANT DIVISION  3333 E. WASHINGTON, LOENIE, NY 

Not to scale Exhibit A DATE: 4-27-2010


